---
part: Migrations
title: 3.0.0
description: "Migration paths to nut.js 3.0.0"
---

Breaking changes introduced with nut.js version 3.0.0

## OptionalSearchParameters

With the improvements to `screen.find` and its siblings, `OptionalSearchParameters` received an update as well.
It no longer carries a `searchMultipleScales` property, but instead now holds a generic `providerData` property.
The `searchMultipleScales` property stemmed from a time when `screen.find` was limited to image search, but with the
introduction of different `find` providers, this property did not make sense anymore.

Instead, search provider specific configuration like `searchMultipleScales` can now be passed via the `providerData`
property.

### Required changes from a users perspective

Instead of setting `searchMultipleScales` on `OptionalSearchParameters`, you now have to pass it via `providerData`:

```js
await screen.find(imageResource("my-image.png"), {
    providerData: {
        searchMultipleScales: true
    },
});
```

### Required changes from a developer perspective

Developers of custom nut.js providers have to adjust their packages such that they'll correctly handle `providerData`.
To ensure compatibility with nut.js 3.0.0, you could add a `peerDependency` to `@nut-tree/nut-js` version `3.0.0` or higher in your providers `package.json`.

```
{
  ...
  "peerDependencies": {
    "@nut-tree/nut-js": ">=3.0.0"
  },
  ...
}
```

It's also considered a good practice to export an interface that describes the structure of `providerData` for a given provider.

## Image

The `Image` class has been adjusted to also carry information about an images bits per pixel and byte width.

If you are loading images using the existing loader functions like `loadImage` or `imageResource`, you don't have to adjust anything.

In case you're manually creating `Image` instances, please make sure to also provide the newly added properties `bitsPerPixel` and `byteWidth`.

## Clipboard

The previous naming scheme of `clipboard.copy(...)` and `clipboard.paste(...)` repeatedly caused people to think it would literally copy and paste content to the environment, 
instead of just setting/getting the current clipboard content.

To avoid further confusion, the `copy` and `paste` methods have been renamed to `setContent` and `getContent` respectively.

```js
// Pre 3.0.0
await clipboard.copy("Hello World");

// 3.0.0
await clipboard.setContent("Hello World");
```

```js
// Pre 3.0.0
const clipboardContent = await clipboard.paste();

// 3.0.0
const clipboardContent = await clipboard.getContent();
```